t.md, before:

# RECORDS

## WIP

- [ ] global directories for ss.yaml
  log, etc.
- [ ] log directory

- [ ] support services
  - [ ] nginx
  - [ ] postgres

## TODO

- [ ] observation
  observable types:
  - scheduled tasked: repeated, timed
  - action completion
- [ ] ss.yaml editor
- [ ] commands description for each parameter
- [ ] ss update action
- [ ] unit documentations
- [ ] command auto completion
- [ ] welcome information
- [ ] ss.yaml validation
- [ ] ss.yaml helper, used in website
- [ ] local shared store
- [ ] reload configs with env
- [ ] includes to share the nixpkgs of the current project
- [ ] storage manage
- [ ] reference for unit folder, so script can access what they want

## DONE

- [x] services
- [x] action-flow to support action and other action-flow
- [x] method to load actions and action-flows in includes
- [x] action chain
  - handle parameter
  - handle env
- [x] generate action shell with nix, and call them in a name patter: unit.action_name
- [x] generate actions from included ss.yaml
- [x] show unit source
- [x] parameter override for units
- [x] import other ss.yaml and generate files for them
- [x] replace flake to normal .nix
- [x] to make unit runnable

  add doc for each unit, by adding a special parameter 'doc', by default null
  to specify input/output type for each unit
- [x] add sha-256 for ss.yaml include so download could be cached
- [x] units have executable interface
- [x] yaml file will extend other yaml files to 'inherit' the existing tools and packgage setups
- [x] in a yaml, the name should be customized and referenced
- [x] to customize yaml will be only thing to do, work with script that can be referenced from yaml file to control other actions
- [x] !! support outside unit
- [x] ref from outside repo on github
- [x] resolve vars
- [x] resolve funcitons

  git repo
- [x] collect units
- [x] !! versioning for packages in yaml
- [x] reconstruct configure to define all logic with yaml, including package fetching, action definition, environment setup, combining etc
- [x] ! option to show version number
- [x] !! put inputs to passthrus so other units can reuse
- [x] !! ss.yaml unit ref
- [x] !! make write unit simple
- [x] !! simplify ss.yaml
- [x] setup env and packagage: default, test, docker (add more if needed)
- [x] setup cli project structure, including src and tests
- [x] setup tests
- [x] define unit
- [x] read unit list
- [x] start envrionment
- [x] use defineUnit function to define python, pytest and postgres
- [x] add Typer and basic usage
- [x] generate supporting file for units: manage path and folders, generated files
- [x] folder structure and path manage for units
- [x] user input wizard
- [x] read pkgsrev from remote conf
- [x] command in app to start to env
- [x] make file generator work correctly, and use the generated flake.nix for development
- [x] remote global configure
- [x] commnads structure
- [x] postgres database function
- [x] move ss.yaml metadata into another reloadable nix file, instead of put inside flake.nix, so ss.yaml reload will take effect always
- [x] package native python application

Commit message:

add 'reference' in ss.yaml

t.md, after:

# RECORDS

## WIP

- [ ] global directories for ss.yaml
  log, etc.
- [ ] log directory

- [ ] support services
  - [ ] nginx
  - [ ] postgres

## TODO

- [ ] observation
  observable types:
  - scheduled tasked: repeated, timed
  - action completion
- [ ] ss.yaml editor
- [ ] commands description for each parameter
- [ ] ss update action
- [ ] unit documentations
- [ ] command auto completion
- [ ] welcome information
- [ ] ss.yaml validation
- [ ] ss.yaml helper, used in website
- [ ] local shared store
- [ ] reload configs with env
- [ ] includes to share the nixpkgs of the current project
- [ ] storage manage
- [ ] reference for unit folder, so script can access what they want

## DONE

- [x] 'include' function for ss.yaml
  when a unit is very long, this can be useful

- [x] services
- [x] action-flow to support action and other action-flow
- [x] method to load actions and action-flows in includes
- [x] action chain
  - handle parameter
  - handle env
- [x] generate action shell with nix, and call them in a name patter: unit.action_name
- [x] generate actions from included ss.yaml
- [x] show unit source
- [x] parameter override for units
- [x] import other ss.yaml and generate files for them
- [x] replace flake to normal .nix
- [x] to make unit runnable

  add doc for each unit, by adding a special parameter 'doc', by default null
  to specify input/output type for each unit
- [x] add sha-256 for ss.yaml include so download could be cached
- [x] units have executable interface
- [x] yaml file will extend other yaml files to 'inherit' the existing tools and packgage setups
- [x] in a yaml, the name should be customized and referenced
- [x] to customize yaml will be only thing to do, work with script that can be referenced from yaml file to control other actions
- [x] !! support outside unit
- [x] ref from outside repo on github
- [x] resolve vars
- [x] resolve funcitons

  git repo
- [x] collect units
- [x] !! versioning for packages in yaml
- [x] reconstruct configure to define all logic with yaml, including package fetching, action definition, environment setup, combining etc
- [x] ! option to show version number
- [x] !! put inputs to passthrus so other units can reuse
- [x] !! ss.yaml unit ref
- [x] !! make write unit simple
- [x] !! simplify ss.yaml
- [x] setup env and packagage: default, test, docker (add more if needed)
- [x] setup cli project structure, including src and tests
- [x] setup tests
- [x] define unit
- [x] read unit list
- [x] start envrionment
- [x] use defineUnit function to define python, pytest and postgres
- [x] add Typer and basic usage
- [x] generate supporting file for units: manage path and folders, generated files
- [x] folder structure and path manage for units
- [x] user input wizard
- [x] read pkgsrev from remote conf
- [x] command in app to start to env
- [x] make file generator work correctly, and use the generated flake.nix for development
- [x] remote global configure
- [x] commnads structure
- [x] postgres database function
- [x] move ss.yaml metadata into another reloadable nix file, instead of put inside flake.nix, so ss.yaml reload will take effect always
- [x] package native python application
